docs/allYouNeed/background.adoc, before:

:toc:

[[background]]
== Background and Related Work

In software industry, although it is considered important practice to follow the "D-R-Y" (Don't repeat yourself) principle<<dry>>, configuration files and other data files sometimes become repetitive and hard to maintain.
For example, to configure a distributed system, to define test cases, or to define characters and stages for a game, we need to describe similar yet slightly different files over and over again.

For applications developed in those areas, various notations have been developed and used.
Such as **YAML**, **TOML**, **HOCON**<<hocon>>, **HCL**, **Gherkin**, etc.

In order to mitigate the redundant descriptions, some of them have features to define information using concepts of inheritances and references.
Not only that, some software products avoid this situation by introducing their own syntax sugars to their configuration file specifications.

Figure <<figure.statusQuo>> shows this situation as a model.

[[figure.statusQuo, 1.]]
.Status Quo
image::images/figure-1.svg[statusQuo, align="center"]

Each notation may have inheritances and references as its own features.
Not only that, each application may have inheritances and node references as its feature to help its users.
On top of that, they may have syntax sugars if the designer thinks it's necessary to help their users.

This creates following challenges in the industry.

* Application developers need to implement common features such as inheritances and reference resolutions for each product every time.
* The same feature is implemented using different syntaxes of the host notation, or a syntax the application defines.
This increases learning costs of application specifications.
* Semantics of the same feature can be subtly different, which will sometimes result in expensive costs.
For instance, multiple inheritance is necessary to reduce redundancy in configuration files.
However, is it implemented using depth first search or width first search?
This can create a discrepancy in users/operators mind about a product's expected behaviors.

.Features of Various Data Notations
|===
| Feature| YAML| TOML| HOCON| HCL| Gherkin| XML

| **Single Inheritance**
| ✔️ (using anchors/aliases)
| ❌ (no direct support)
| ✔️ (using object merging)
| ✔️ (using modules)
| ❌ (no direct support)
| ⚠️ (using DTD or XSD, limited)

| **Multiple Inheritance**
| ⚠️ (with merge arrays but limited)
| ❌ (no direct support)
| ✔️ (using fallbacks/merging)
| ❌ (no direct support.
It can be simulated by combining modules)
| ❌ (no direct support)
| ❌ (no direct support)

| **Nested Inheritance**
| ✔️ (with layered anchors)
| ❌ (no direct support)
| ✔️ (layered object merging)
| ⚠️ (limited support via module chaining)
| ❌ (no direct support)
| ⚠️ (using nested elements, limited)

| **Node References**
| ✔️ (anchors/aliases for references)
| ❌ (no direct support)
| ✔️ (substitution with `${}` syntax)
| ✔️ (expressions and variable references)
| ❌ (no direct support)
| ⚠️ (using XPointer or XPath, limited)

| **Limitations of Multiple Inheritance**
| Limited by merge key order; complex configurations can become difficult to read
| Not supported natively; manual repetition required
| Supported but can be complex in deeply nested structures
| Not directly supported; combining modules is complex
| Not supported; only supports simple statements
| Not supported; merging different schemas requires external processing

| **Relationship with JSON**
| ✔️ (YAML is a superset)
| ❌ (not a superset)
| ✔️ (HOCON is a superset)
| ❌ (not a superset)
| ❌ (not a superset)
| ❌ (not a superset, but can be converted)

| **Tool to Convert to JSON**
| PyYAML, js-yaml (JavaScript)
| TomlKit, toml (Python)
| Lightbend Config (Scala/Java), pyhocon (Python)
| hcl2json (Go)
| Cucumber (with JSON formatter)
| xmltodict (Python), xml2js (JavaScript)
|===

From this matrix, you may think that **HOCON** provides all the necessary functionalities.
However, it still has the following challenges in practice.

* **HOCON** is a much less popular notation than **YAML**.
* Learning **HOCON** is an extra cost for users of an application whose notation isn't based on it.
* It doesn't allow to define a function so that a formula to compute a node value can be reused.

Thus, we state that there is no good solution to the problems.

Commit message:

WIP-28: Add JSON++ is all you need article

docs/allYouNeed/background.adoc, after:

:toc:

[[background]]
== Background and Related Work

In software industry, although it is considered important practice to follow the "D-R-Y" (Don't repeat yourself) principle<<dry>>, configuration files, and other data files sometimes become repetitive and hard to maintain.
For example, to configure a distributed system, to define test cases, or to define characters and stages for a game, we need to describe similar yet slightly different files over and over again.

For applications developed in those areas, various notations have been developed and used.
Such as **YAML**, **TOML**, **HOCON**<<hocon>>, **HCL**, **Gherkin**, etc.

In order to mitigate the redundant descriptions, some of them have features to define information using concepts of inheritances and references.
Not only that, some software products avoid this situation by introducing their own syntax sugars to their configuration file specifications.

Figure <<figure.statusQuo>> shows this situation as a model.

[[figure.statusQuo, 1.]]
.Status Quo
image::images/figure-1.svg[statusQuo,align="center"]

Each notation may have inheritances and references as its own features.
Not only that, each application may have inheritances and node references as its feature to help users.
On top of that, they may have syntax sugars if the designer thinks it's necessary to help their users.

This creates following challenges in the industry.

* Application developers need to implement common features such as inheritances and reference resolutions for each product every time.
* The same feature is implemented using different syntaxes of the host notation, or a syntax the application defines.
This increases learning costs of application specifications.
* THe semantics of the same feature can be subtly different, which will sometimes result in expensive debugging costs.
For instance, multiple inheritance is necessary to reduce redundancy in configuration files.
However, it may be implemented using the depth-first search or width-first search.
This can create a discrepancy in users/operators mind about a product's expected behaviors.

.Features of Various Data Notations
|===
| Feature| YAML| TOML| HOCON| HCL| Gherkin| XML

| **Single Inheritance**
| ✔️ (using anchors/aliases)
| ❌ (no direct support)
| ✔️ (using object merging)
| ✔️ (using modules)
| ❌ (no direct support)
| ⚠️ (using DTD or XSD, limited)

| **Multiple Inheritance**
| ⚠️ (with merge arrays but limited)
| ❌ (no direct support)
| ✔️ (using fallbacks/merging)
| ❌ (no direct support.
It can be simulated by combining modules)
| ❌ (no direct support)
| ❌ (no direct support)

| **Nested Inheritance**
| ✔️ (with layered anchors)
| ❌ (no direct support)
| ✔️ (layered object merging)
| ⚠️ (limited support via module chaining)
| ❌ (no direct support)
| ⚠️ (using nested elements, limited)

| **Node References**
| ✔️ (anchors/aliases for references)
| ❌ (no direct support)
| ✔️ (substitution with `${}` syntax)
| ✔️ (expressions and variable references)
| ❌ (no direct support)
| ⚠️ (using XPointer or XPath, limited)

| **Limitations of Multiple Inheritance**
| Limited by merge key order; complex configurations can become difficult to read
| Not supported natively; manual repetition required
| Supported but can be complex in deeply nested structures
| Not directly supported; combining modules is complex
| Not supported; only supports simple statements
| Not supported; merging different schemas requires external processing

| **Relationship with JSON**
| ✔️ (YAML is a superset)
| ❌ (not a superset)
| ✔️ (HOCON is a superset)
| ❌ (not a superset)
| ❌ (not a superset)
| ❌ (not a superset, but can be converted)

| **Tool to Convert to JSON**
| PyYAML, js-yaml (JavaScript)
| TomlKit, toml (Python)
| Lightbend Config (Scala/Java), pyhocon (Python)
| hcl2json (Go)
| Cucumber (with JSON formatter)
| xmltodict (Python), xml2js (JavaScript)
|===

From this matrix, you may think that **HOCON** provides all the necessary functionalities.
However, it still has the following challenges in practice.

* **HOCON** is a much less popular notation than **YAML** or **JSON**.
* Learning **HOCON** is an extra cost for users of an application whose notation isn't based on it.
* It doesn't allow defining a function so that a formula to compute a node value can be reused.
* To use **HOCON**, the application needs to choose it as its data defining notation at first.

There is a substantially different approach from the ones above, where a templating engine such as **Mustache**<<mustache>> is employed.
This approach is transparent to notations that applications use, hence it can be applied universally.
Nevertheless, it has its own pain points as follows:

* Templates do not follow the original notations' syntaxes.
(A template for YAML is not YAML)
Therefore, External tools developed for the notations cannot be used.
For instance, **yq** cannot be used for **YAML** templates.
**IDE** support for **YAML** complains of placeholders in templates because they make it invalid as **YAML**.
* Semantics of placeholders are hard coded in the application.
If an application is implemented in **Java**, to update a placeholder's semantics, you will need to modify the **Java** code.
This sometimes becomes painful or impractical.

Thus, to the best of our knowledge, we state that there is no good solution to the problems.
