docs/allYouNeed/introduction.adoc, before:

:toc:

[[introduction]]
== Introduction

**Status Quo:** Not a few similar yet different notations have been proposed and applied to various software products to describe information with complex structures and constraints.

This is a situation found especially frequent in configuration files of distributed systems backed by containerized virtualization solutions, but not limited to.
In distributed system management, there are tools to manage instances under **docker**<<docker>> and **Kubernetes**<<k8s>>.
Most of them use **YAML**<<kustomize>><<helm>><<docker-compose>>, but **Terraform**<<terraform>> uses its own notation; **HCL**.
Not only that, in testing field, **runn**<<runn>> and **commandunit**<<commandunit>> use **YAML**<<yaml>>, while **Cucumber**<<cucumber>> uses **Gherkin**<<gherkin>>.
Another notation is **TOML**, which is used for building python projects<<pyproject>>, widely used for python projects, but not limited to.
For instance, configuring blog system<<hugo>>.

In short, currently, various applications use various notations to define their own DSLs for configurations and tests.
However, they share common concerns and keep addressing similar problems repetitively, which is inefficient, error-prone, and raising learning costs for users.

**Proposed Method:**  We propose a new method, which is designed based on the following principles:

1. Consider human readability and conciseness are completely separate concerns.
"Conciseness" here means the ability to describe structured information without redundancy under a given grammarfootnote:humanReadability[Verboseness of the grammar should be addressed as a part of human-readability and achieved by the design of the grammar.].
2. Introduce notation neutral syntax to express data concisely.
The syntax is designed as an application of **JSON**<<json>>, because all the notations we think of can be converted into/back from it easily with widely available tools.
The syntax is called **JSON{plus}{plus}**, and designed any valid **JSON{plus}{plus}** is a valid **JSON** file.
By processing the enhanced syntax, a **JSON{plus}{plus}** is rendered into a conventional **JSON** file.
It has a few keywords that allow users to use inheritances, compute a node's value from other nodes with a formula, and reuse a formula to compute a node's value.
3. We also present a reference implementation of a processor for **JSON{plus}{plus}**, called **jq-front**<<jq-front>>.
4. Based on that, we will propose a pipelined approach, whose first stage converts human-readable input files into JSON files.
The pipeline will then process the **JSON** files as **JSON{plus}{plus}** files and resolve inheritances and interpolations defined in them.

This is a situation, where the industry is against at a principle in the UNIX philosophy: "Make each program do one thing well".

In this article, we provide a working example of toolchains, where notations are focusing on human-readability, applications are focusing on its functionalities, and "machine-readability" is taken care of by an independent component.
With this, we aim at delivering a way to achieve "Build programs to work together", another important UNIX philosophy.

**Evaluation and Results:** In the <<results>> section, we will show case-study results, where the method is applied to a few real-world examples, such as **TOML**<<toml>> used in `pyproject.toml`, tests written in **Gherkin** and **YAML**,

This approach allows us to keep using the already existing tool supports, such as syntax highlighting plugins, refactoring feature of editors, CLI tools to manipulate the data, and other utilities.
For application developers, it is also beneficial because burdens to simplify their configuration notations will be removed.
Because it will be a user side concern.
Only in case they want to uniform how such configurations should be written, or they want to reduce user side effort, they can bundle **JSON{plus}{plus}** files which define reasonable default values with their product.

The rest of this paper is organized as follows:
In <<background>>, we will discuss how the problem of repetitiveness in configuration files and other sorts of files has been addressed, or not addressed.
In <<technique>>, the details of our approach and the syntax we designed for this approach will be described.
Then in <<results>>, we look into how much the approach can reduce the size of configuration files by applying it to an actual example.
In the <<conclusion>>, we will summarize our findings and future works.

Commit message:

WIP-23: Add JSON++ is all you need article

docs/allYouNeed/introduction.adoc, after:

:toc:

[[introduction]]
== Introduction

**Status Quo:** Not a few similar yet different notations have been proposed and applied to various software products to describe information with complex structures and constraints.

This is a situation found especially frequent in configuration files of distributed systems backed by containerized virtualization solutions, but not limited to.
In distributed system management, there are tools to manage instances under **docker**<<docker>> and **Kubernetes**<<k8s>>.
Most of them use **YAML**<<kustomize>><<helm>><<docker-compose>>, but **Terraform**<<terraform>> uses its own notation; **HCL**.
Not only that, in testing field, **runn**<<runn>> and **commandunit**<<commandunit>> use **YAML**<<yaml>>, while **Cucumber**<<cucumber>> uses **Gherkin**<<gherkin>>.
Another notation is **TOML**, which is used for building python projects<<pyproject>>, widely used for python projects, but not limited to.
For instance, configuring blog system<<hugo>>.

In short, currently, various applications use various notations to define their own DSLs for system configurations, tests, or product management.
However, they share common concerns and keep addressing similar problems repetitively, which is inefficient, error-prone, and raising learning costs for users.
This is a situation violating principle in the UNIX philosophy: "Make each program do one thing well" and "Don't repeat yourself".

**Proposed Method:**  We propose a new method, which is designed based on the following principles:

1. Consider human readability and conciseness are completely separate concerns.
"Conciseness" here means the ability to describe structured information without redundancy under a given grammarfootnote:humanReadability[Verboseness of the grammar should be addressed as a part of human-readability and achieved by the design of the grammar.].
2. Introduce notation neutral syntax to express data concisely.
The syntax is designed to be surjective from one notation to itself.
It has a few keywords to enable inheritances and computations of node values from others.
Given a notation *N*, a new notation enhanced by the syntax will be called **N{plus}{plus}**
In general, each well-known notation can be converted into/back from **JSON**<<json>>.
This means once we implement **N{plus}{plus}** processor for **JSON**, it can be used for all these notations mentioned above just by employing it as a stage in a pipeline.
We call **N{plus}{plus}** for **JSON** as "**JSON{plus}{plus}**", and documents written in it **JSON{plus}{plus}** documents in this article.
Its processor renders a **JSON{plus}{plus}** document into a conventional **JSON** document.
3. We also present a reference implementation of a processor for **JSON{plus}{plus}**, called **jq-front**<<jq-front>>.

In this article, we provide a working example of toolchains, where notations are focusing on human-readability, applications are focusing on its functionalities, and "machine-readability" is taken care of by an independent component.
With this, we aim at delivering a way to achieve "Build programs to work together", another important UNIX philosophy.

**Evaluation and Results:** In the <<results>> section, we will show case-study results, where the method is applied to a few real-world examples, such as **TOML**<<toml>> used in `pyproject.toml`, tests written in **Gherkin** and **YAML**,

This approach allows us to keep using the already existing tool supports, such as syntax highlighting plugins, refactoring feature of editors, CLI tools to manipulate the data, and other utilities.
For application developers, it is also beneficial because burdens to simplify their configuration notations will be removed.
Users will be able to take care of it by themselves using inheritances and reusable node value computations.
Only in case they want to uniform how such configurations should be written across their users, they can bundle standard **JSON{plus}{plus}** files which define reasonable default values and reusable logics for the default values of their product.

The rest of this paper is organized as follows:
In <<background>>, we will discuss how the problem of repetitiveness in configuration files and other sorts of files has been addressed, or not addressed.
In <<technique>>, the details of our approach and the syntax we designed for this approach will be described.
Then in <<results>>, we look into how much the approach can reduce the size of configuration files by applying it to an actual example.
In the <<conclusion>>, we will summarize our findings and future works.
